EdFi.Buzz.UI.Angular/README.md, before:

Ed-Fi Buzz UI
============

These scripts were made possible thanks to the Ed-Fi Alliance and the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation.

UI - User Interface based on Angular 8
------------

Description
------------
This is the Angular Version of the user interface.

Prerequisites
------------
We recommend that the following prerequisites are installed on the machine that you are going to run the scripts on.

1. Node Js LTS version https://nodejs.org/en/
2. Angular CLI https://cli.angular.io/

That is it =)


Setup Instructions for Development
------------

1. Download the repository
2. Open a PowerShell window and Navigate to the UI folder C:\projects\Ed-Fi-Buzz\UI\
3. Open PowerShell as an "Administrator" and run yarn install
4. Duplicate the [environment.example.json](src/assets/environment.example.json) file, and rename the copy to environment.json, then replace its contents with the correct values for your environment
5. In the same Powershell window type "yarn start"
6. Open a browser (Chrome) and navigate to http://localhost:4200/


```PowerShell
C:\temp\ed-fi\> .\BinaryInstall.ps1
```

## Development server

Run `yarn start` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `yarn build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Legal Information

Copyright (c) 2020 Ed-Fi Alliance, LLC and contributors.

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE) (the "License").

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

See [NOTICES](NOTICES.md) for additional copyright and license notifications.

Commit message:

[FIF-250] Adds ADFS login option (#66)
## Known Issues
* By default, ADFS does not return an email property in the token but with the test user it returns it in the upn property.
* On logout it redirects to a Microsoft logout message page and then redirects to our login page.
* Google logout needs a console.log call in app\Features\navbar\navbar.component.ts to fully logout last user, if this call is removed, the logout functions redirect to the login page, gets a token from google and redirects to the app page. It may be because different components are used to log in (react component) and log out (angular component).
* We need documentation on how to set up the app in the AD FS console.

##API configuration
* Set the URI_DISCOVERY variable in the .env file. The example.env file has a commented line as
#URI_DISCOVERY = https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/.well-known/openid-configuration.
* Add the test email to a staff in the database
##Client configuration
* Set the ADFS_CLIENT_ID and ADFS_TENANT_ID variables in the src\assets\environment.json file (Data shared in slack). ADFS_CLIENT_ID is used as an indicator to show the login button for ADFS.
* Remove GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID variable in the src\assets\environment.json file. GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID is used as an indicator to show the login button for google.

EdFi.Buzz.UI.Angular/README.md, after:

Ed-Fi Buzz UI
============

These scripts were made possible thanks to the Ed-Fi Alliance and the Michael and Susan Dell Foundation.

UI - User Interface based on Angular 8
------------

Description
------------
This is the Angular Version of the user interface.

Prerequisites
------------
We recommend that the following prerequisites are installed on the machine that you are going to run the scripts on.

1. Node Js LTS version https://nodejs.org/en/
2. Angular CLI https://cli.angular.io/

That is it =)


Setup Instructions for Development
------------

1. Download the repository
2. Open a PowerShell window and Navigate to the UI folder C:\projects\Ed-Fi-Buzz\UI\
3. Open PowerShell as an "Administrator" and run yarn install
4. Duplicate the [environment.example.json](src/assets/environment.example.json) file, and rename the copy to environment.json, then replace its contents with the correct values for your environment. Either set GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID, to use a google accound, or ADFS_CLIENT_ID and ADFS_TENANT_ID for use ADFS
5. In the same Powershell window type "yarn start"
6. Open a browser (Chrome) and navigate to http://localhost:4200/


```PowerShell
C:\temp\ed-fi\> .\BinaryInstall.ps1
```

## Development server

Run `yarn start` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `yarn build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Legal Information

Copyright (c) 2020 Ed-Fi Alliance, LLC and contributors.

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE) (the "License").

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

See [NOTICES](NOTICES.md) for additional copyright and license notifications.
